ports/stm32/boards/Passport/trezor-firmware/python/README.md, before:

# trezorlib

[![repology](https://repology.org/badge/tiny-repos/python:trezor.svg)](https://repology.org/metapackage/python:trezor) [![image](https://badges.gitter.im/trezor/community.svg)](https://gitter.im/trezor/community)

Python library and command-line client for communicating with Trezor
Hardware Wallet.

See <https://trezor.io> for more information.

## Install

Python Trezor tools require Python 3.5 or higher, and libusb 1.0. The easiest
way to install it is with `pip`. The rest of this guide assumes you have
a working `pip`; if not, you can refer to [this
guide](https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/installing-packages/).

On a typical system, you already have all you need. Install `trezor` with:

```sh
pip3 install trezor
```

On Windows, you also need to either install [Trezor Bridge](https://wallet.trezor.io/#/bridge), or
[libusb](https://github.com/libusb/libusb/wiki/Windows) and the appropriate
[drivers](https://zadig.akeo.ie/).

### Firmware version requirements

Current trezorlib version supports Trezor One version 1.8.0 and up, and Trezor T version
2.1.0 and up.

For firmware versions below 1.8.0 and 2.1.0 respectively, the only supported operation
is "upgrade firmware".

Trezor One with firmware _older than 1.7.0_ (including firmware-less out-of-the-box
units) will not be recognized, unless you install HIDAPI support (see below).

### Installation options

* **Firmware-less Trezor One**: If you are setting up a brand new Trezor One without
  firmware, you will need HIDAPI support. On Linux, you will need the following packages
  (or their equivalents) as prerequisites: `python3-dev`, `cython3`, `libusb-1.0-0-dev`,
  `libudev-dev`.

  Install with:

  ```sh
  pip3 install trezor[hidapi]
  ```

* **Ethereum**: To support Ethereum signing from command line, additional packages are
  needed. Install with:

  ```sh
  pip3 install trezor[ethereum]
  ```

To install both, use `pip3 install trezor[hidapi,ethereum]`.

### Distro packages

Check out [Repology](https://repology.org/metapackage/python:trezor) to see if your
operating system has an up-to-date python-trezor package.

### Installing latest version from GitHub

```sh
pip3 install "git+https://github.com/trezor/trezor-firmware#egg=trezor&subdirectory=python"
```

### Running from source

Install the [pipenv](https://pipenv.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) tool, checkout
`trezor-firmware` from git, and enter the pipenv shell:

```sh
pip3 install pipenv
git clone https://github.com/trezor/trezor-firmware
cd trezor-firmware
pipenv sync
pipenv shell
```

In this environment, trezorlib and the `trezorctl` tool is running from the live
sources, so your changes are immediately effective.

## Command line client (trezorctl)

The included `trezorctl` python script can perform various tasks such as
changing setting in the Trezor, signing transactions, retrieving account
info and addresses. See the [docs/](docs/) sub folder for detailed
examples and options.

NOTE: An older version of the `trezorctl` command is [available for
Debian Stretch](https://packages.debian.org/en/stretch/python-trezor)
(and comes pre-installed on [Tails OS](https://tails.boum.org/)).

## Python Library

You can use this python library to interact with a Trezor and use its capabilities in
your application. See examples here in the [tools/](tools/) sub folder.

## PIN Entering

When you are asked for PIN, you have to enter scrambled PIN. Follow the
numbers shown on Trezor display and enter the their positions using the
numeric keyboard mapping:

|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
| 7 | 8 | 9 |
| 4 | 5 | 6 |
| 1 | 2 | 3 |

Example: your PIN is **1234** and Trezor is displaying the following:

|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
| 2 | 8 | 3 |
| 5 | 4 | 6 |
| 7 | 9 | 1 |

You have to enter: **3795**

## Contributing

If you want to change protobuf or coin definitions, you will need to regenerate
definitions in the `python/` subdirectory.

First, make sure your submodules are up-to-date with:

```sh
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

Then, rebuild the protobuf messages by running, from the `trezor-firmware` top-level
directory:

```sh
make gen
```

To get support for BTC-like coins, these steps are enough and no further
changes to the library are necessary.

Commit message:

PASS1-192 & PASS1-206 (#79)
* PASS1-192: Update trezor-firmware

Signed-off-by: Jean-Pierre De Jesus DIAZ <me@jeandudey.tech>

* fixup! PASS1-192: Update trezor-firmware

* PASS1-192: Update build in order to use new trezor-firmware

Signed-off-by: Jean-Pierre De Jesus DIAZ <me@jeandudey.tech>

* PASS1-206: Address verification fixes

- Fixed verify address in wallet pairing flow
- Fixed verify address menu for legacy addresses

* PASS1-206: More fixes for address verification

Added missing testnet prefixes
Some bitcoin addresses wrapped badly with 16 characters across, so just limit all to 14 characters per line

Co-authored-by: Jean-Pierre De Jesus DIAZ <me@jeandudey.tech>

ports/stm32/boards/Passport/trezor-firmware/python/README.md, after:

# trezorlib

[![repology](https://repology.org/badge/tiny-repos/python:trezor.svg)](https://repology.org/metapackage/python:trezor) [![image](https://badges.gitter.im/trezor/community.svg)](https://gitter.im/trezor/community)

Python library and command-line client for communicating with Trezor
Hardware Wallet.

See <https://trezor.io> for more information.

## Install

Python Trezor tools require Python 3.5 or higher, and libusb 1.0. The easiest
way to install it is with `pip`. The rest of this guide assumes you have
a working `pip`; if not, you can refer to [this
guide](https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/installing-packages/).

On a typical system, you already have all you need. Install `trezor` with:

```sh
pip3 install trezor
```

On Windows, you also need to either install [Trezor Bridge](https://suite.trezor.io/web/bridge/), or
[libusb](https://github.com/libusb/libusb/wiki/Windows) and the appropriate
[drivers](https://zadig.akeo.ie/).

### Firmware version requirements

Current trezorlib version supports Trezor One version 1.8.0 and up, and Trezor T version
2.1.0 and up.

For firmware versions below 1.8.0 and 2.1.0 respectively, the only supported operation
is "upgrade firmware".

Trezor One with firmware _older than 1.7.0_ (including firmware-less out-of-the-box
units) will not be recognized, unless you install HIDAPI support (see below).

### Installation options

* **Firmware-less Trezor One**: If you are setting up a brand new Trezor One without
  firmware, you will need HIDAPI support. On Linux, you will need the following packages
  (or their equivalents) as prerequisites: `python3-dev`, `cython3`, `libusb-1.0-0-dev`,
  `libudev-dev`.

  Install with:

  ```sh
  pip3 install trezor[hidapi]
  ```

* **Ethereum**: To support Ethereum signing from command line, additional packages are
  needed. Install with:

  ```sh
  pip3 install trezor[ethereum]
  ```

* **Stellar**: To support Stellar signing from command line, additional packages are
  needed. Install with:

  ```sh
  pip3 install trezor[stellar]
  ```

To install all three, use `pip3 install trezor[hidapi,ethereum,stellar]`.

### Distro packages

Check out [Repology](https://repology.org/metapackage/python:trezor) to see if your
operating system has an up-to-date python-trezor package.

### Installing latest version from GitHub

```sh
pip3 install "git+https://github.com/trezor/trezor-firmware#egg=trezor&subdirectory=python"
```

### Running from source

Install the [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) tool, checkout
`trezor-firmware` from git, and enter the poetry shell:

```sh
pip3 install poetry
git clone https://github.com/trezor/trezor-firmware
cd trezor-firmware
poetry install
poetry shell
```

In this environment, trezorlib and the `trezorctl` tool is running from the live
sources, so your changes are immediately effective.

## Command line client (trezorctl)

The included `trezorctl` python script can perform various tasks such as
changing setting in the Trezor, signing transactions, retrieving account
info and addresses. See the [docs/](docs/) sub folder for detailed
examples and options.

NOTE: An older version of the `trezorctl` command is [available for
Debian Stretch](https://packages.debian.org/en/stretch/python-trezor)
(and comes pre-installed on [Tails OS](https://tails.boum.org/)).

## Python Library

You can use this python library to interact with a Trezor and use its capabilities in
your application. See examples here in the [tools/](tools/) sub folder.

## PIN Entering

When you are asked for PIN, you have to enter scrambled PIN. Follow the
numbers shown on Trezor display and enter the their positions using the
numeric keyboard mapping:

|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
| 7 | 8 | 9 |
| 4 | 5 | 6 |
| 1 | 2 | 3 |

Example: your PIN is **1234** and Trezor is displaying the following:

|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
| 2 | 8 | 3 |
| 5 | 4 | 6 |
| 7 | 9 | 1 |

You have to enter: **3795**

## Contributing

If you want to change protobuf or coin definitions, you will need to regenerate
definitions in the `python/` subdirectory.

First, make sure your submodules are up-to-date with:

```sh
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

Then, rebuild the protobuf messages by running, from the `trezor-firmware` top-level
directory:

```sh
make gen
```

To get support for BTC-like coins, these steps are enough and no further
changes to the library are necessary.
